>> Lukas: When somebody is learning Redux.
>> Lukas: The first phase is you got to
get them comfortable with state flows
down, event flows up.
>> Lukas: One of two questions
is going to happen next.
>> Lukas: The first one, or
it can happen in any order, but
one of them is what happens if you
have a relational data structure?
How do you put those back together?
>> Lukas: The second question is what
happens if I need to do something at
the server before I save it to the store?
So, how do you compose relational data?
So you have two slices, like let's
say we had users and challenges or
whatever, and
like how do I actually combine that,
because they're separated because
you don't want it in two places.
And so,
we'll go with the asynchronous one first,
because we've already touched
on the compositional one.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry, excuse me,
if I may ask, I'm looking at this now, and
then going back to the visualstudio.net,
the way we used to structure is this,
the data set or
data source where you have all the data
pulled into a particular place,
and then finish working, and
then you take everything back to.
>> Lukas: Yes, so this is basically a port
of Redux which is heavily into to React,
and the idea is that all state gets
composed into a single state tree,
and all your application
state is in one place.
Why this is important, and
the other thing is any operation you do
to application state is immutable.
The reason being is that,
>> Lukas: How does garbage collection
know if something has changed?
>> Lukas: Well, a very obvious way is
that the memory pointer changes, and
so when you have a variable pointing
to a specific heap of memory,
and historically, we would just mutate it.
It's like, I've got an array of 20 things,
and I'm gonna go change the 9th one, well,
how do you know it changed?
How do you know it changed?
Versus, I'm going to replace
the entire array with a new one, well,
that's a pretty good indication that
something's changed and you no longer have
to go and waste the cycle is trying to
figure out like, well, what changed?
What do I update?
What happened?
And it's actually trying
to go figure out like what
actually was mutated,
versus I'm just gonna swap it and
just respond by refreshing or
re-rendering the things.
And so this is why there's a lot
of other things I could say
about immutable operations,
but this is one of them.
Is that all your state goes into
one place, when you change state,
it essentially swaps that
object out with a new one,
which you can store and create a memento.
You can do a lot of really interesting
things, I've done it where I've actually,
when you throw an error, I capture
the previous state and the command, and
I send it to LogRocket, and then you
can actually replay that entire state.
You can pull the state tree back down,
replay that,
and you can recreate with total
precision the application
before it went into an air state,
it's pretty interesting.
So, this is, yes, to answer your
question in a very roundabout way,
it's this is exactly what's happened.
This was heavily inspired by Redux, and
I'll actually show you something
kind of interesting in a moment.
So, the asynchronous part.
>> Lukas: This, I believe, is the hardest
part about learning NgRX, and
this is where I think people,
really get stuck.
And I feel like maybe
I've said this already,
I feel like I just made went back
in time Groundhog day style.
The reason why people
struggle with effects,
is because you're dealing with
asynchronous business logic.
>> Lukas: And
that's hard because most people do not
appropriately understand
observable streams.
>> Lukas: And if you don't
understand observable streams,
the asynchronous nature of
an observable stream is
going to be mysterious and
confusing and unpredictable.
I think I talked about it
in one of the courses here,
so I'm not gonna get too much into it,
it's just asynchronous logic is tough in
any domain, any technology, any platform.
>> Lukas: And,
I can say that most certainly.
>> Lukas: Effects are no exception.
What we have here is,
we're creating an effect that
is looking for a trigger event.
So in this case,
>> Lukas: We
are listening for, if I can get
this mouse to stop being stupid,
what's the action that we're looking for
here?
Can you guys see this?
Load workshops, right,
this is the trigger event.
Then you either have a success or
failure completion event.
And so,
effects are basically middleware for
your front end app were
just like the reducer,
they're listening for actions and
responding if it matches up.
Now, it is possible to have a reducer and
an effect listening for
the same event,
I would recommend avoiding that.
>> Lukas: Where I think maybe I would
permit it and I think it's actually in
this example is that if I needed
to set loading to false and so
I need to just like it's loaded,
it's not loaded but
then all of the logic, and
even then I'm not in love with it.
But you have a trigger event or action.
Those go into effects, then the effects
dispatch the completion event.
And so I think of it as,
you're assembling a train.
Cuz you can actually have an effect
that listens for a trigger event,
that dispatches an event,
that gets picked up by another effect,
that triggers another event,
that gets picked up by another event.
You can string effects together and
do some really interesting asynchronous,
like logic composition and
workflow composition.
If anybody is familiar with
step functions in AWS Lambda,
it's all event-based
distributed workflow stuff.
Well, in a microcosm,
this is what effects are, trigger,
completion, trigger, completion.
So most of the time, the trigger event is,
do some asynchronous
thing it to the server,
the completion event is this is
the result of it, save it to the store.
And we have some basic stuff.
I would say that this is a matter of
just kinda looking at the operators and
doing a little bit of homework on them.
The other piece, or
the other question that I posed is,
what happens when you
have relational data?
>> Lukas: That,
let's say we have users and lessons, and
I want to stitch those back together
to display them, what do I do?
Well, this is where you use a selector
to essentially create two subselectors,
combine them together cuz they're
just streams, compose them together,
and then return a new stream
with a combined data source.
State flows down, events flow up.
If event flows up, if there's
an asynchronous action, it hits an effect.
That effect completes and
it pushes it into the store.
If state flows down, and you need to
perform some sort of composition,
it goes into a selector or selectors,
that then performs that operation,
and then returns it as unified
stream into the really the facade,
which then gets passed on
to the component layer.
Does that make sense so far?
All right, we have just a few
more things to wire up here,
just wanna make sure I'm giving
this the proper attention.
>> Lukas: Oops,
the one thing that I haven't done yet
is because we're no
longer pushing this into
an entry module,
because of the standalone API,
that you have to achieve
that somewhere else.
And so in this case, what I've done, and
what I do is,
>> Lukas: Well,
apparently, I'm totally
discombobulated right now, hold on.
>> Lukas: user-state,
workshop-state, there we go.
>> Lukas: I just create a state.ts file,
go in here
>> Lukas: Now, the one thing that needs to
happen, if anybody wants
to submit a pull request,
is my template wizard does not
do a good job with all caps.
So I would accept a pull request on that.
>> Lukas: So I have to go through and,
>> Lukas: So
this I believe, for
the most part, is all the stuff.
I feel like I might have,
>> Lukas: What am I missing here?
I'm on a spec, okay, that's fine.
>> Lukas: Admittedly,
there are a lot of moving pieces.
So the other thing is
kinda the barrel roll or
kind of the index file that serves
as kinda the public API is this.
So, eloquently, point out here,
[SOUND]
>> Lukas: All right, so
I think the library, or the state
library is pretty much good to go.
Now the question is,
how do we actually get this hooked in?
And this is where, when I was wrapping
my mind rather new standalone API.
Poor Brian Love, just called him on
the phone, just sobbing my eyes out.
>> Lukas: All right, so, I believe
there's only two places that
you see NgRx kind of emerge
into the consuming layer.
And fortunately it happens in the,
maybe not totally constrained with
the way that we're doing it now.
[COUGH] It's pretty much isolated
into the remote entry point,
which I'm pretty happy about.
So one is,
when you're setting up your app config.
So when you're Bootstrapping
your application that
instead of having just this big, long, or
this huge thing where you're
calling Bootstrap application,
you got this big config object that
they've started to move
this out into appConfig.
>> Lukas: I'm just gonna copy this.
>> Lukas: I keep forgetting that
workshops is all the way down here.
>> Lukas: What's interesting this is
actually a host application that,
notice, it doesn't have
a remote entry point.
And the last thing that we have is,
we need to just wire in the facade
into the component.
So typically,
>> Lukas: In this case, it would go into,
>> Lukas: The container component in
the,
>> Lukas: Application, but
I don't have all of this in, so
I am gonna just put this in here.
I think really what I would
need to do in this case,
if I was gonna be thorough, is actually
generate a workshops component,
Master Detail View to put in there.
So what I'm going to do instead is,
>> Lukas: I'm just going to copy
the facade.
>> Lukas: And,
>> Lukas: What file am I in?
Wrong, that's not it, all right?
>> Lukas: I'm excited
thinking about a break.
>> Lukas: All right,
now I'm in the right place.
So private workshopsFacade.
>> Lukas: I was really hoping
this would just pick up.
>> Speaker 3: Line 15 needs an A in facade
>> Lukas: I might have actually sabotaged.
>> Lukas: I thought I did this already.
>> Lukas: Come on, notes,
notes, notes, notes.
>> Lukas: Actually,
I think I did this, almost done.
>> Lukas: Go in your hole you stupid ball.
All right,
that's done
>> Speaker 4: I
think you're importing it
from the data not the state.
>> Lukas: Am I doing that cuz
that would make a lot of sense.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
you definitely didn't have an export for
the facade on the data lib
>> Lukas: So
that's where we have unintended
consequences where like,
I'm just gonna leave this
here it's totally fine.
And if I wasn't in front of everybody
just desperate for your approval,
I probably would have went and fixed that.
So, all right,